you've seen how regularization can help
prevent overfitting but how does it
affect the bias and variance of a
learning algorithm in this video I'd
like to go deeper into the issue of bias
and variance and talk about how it
interacts with and is affected by the
regularization of your learning
algorithm suppose we fit a linear
regression model with a very high order
polynomial but to prevent overfitting
we're going to use regularization as
shown here suppose we're fitting a high
order polynomial like that shown here
but to prevent overfitting we're going
to use the regularization like that
shown here so we have this
regularization term to try to keep the
pair the values of the parameter small
and as usual the regularization stems
from J equals 1 to M rather than J
equals 0 to them let's consider three
cases the first is a case of a very
large value of the regularization
parameter lambda such as if lambda were
equal to 10,000 some huge value in this
case all of these parameters theta 1
theta 2 theta 3 and so on will be
heavily penalized and so we'll end up
with most of these parameter values
being close to zero and the hypothesis
will be roughly H of X just equal or
approximately equal to theta 0 and so we
end up with the hypothesis that more or
less looks like that this is more than a
flat constant straight line and so this
hypothesis has high bias and the badly
under fits this data sets about
horizontal straight line is just not a
very good model for this data set and
the other extreme is if we have a very
small value of lambda such as if lambda
were equal to zero in that case given
that with fitting a high order
polynomial this is a usual overfitting
setting in that case given that with
fitting a high order polynomial
basically without regularization or with
very minimal verbalization we end up
with our usual high variance overfitting
setting this basically if long dress
equals 0
which is fitting it without
regularization so that all the fits the
hypothesis and there's only if we have
some intermediate value of lambda that
is neither too large nor too small that
we observed with parameters theta that
give us a reasonable fit to this data so
how can we automatically choose a good
value for the regularization parameter
lambda just to reiterate here is our
model and here is our learning
algorithms objective for the setting
where we're using regularization let me
define J train of theta to be something
different to be the optimization
objective but without the regularization
term previously in an earlier video when
we were not using regularization I
define J train of theta to be the same
as J of theta as the cost function but
when we're using regularization when the
sixth row lambda term we're going to
define J train my training set error to
be just my sum of squared errors on the
training set or my average squared error
on the training set without taking into
account that regularization term and
similarly I'm then also going to define
the cross-validation set error when the
test set error as before to be the
average sum of squared errors on the
cross-validation and the test sets so
just to summarize my definitions of J
train j cv and j tests are just the
average squared error or one half of the
average squared error on my training
validation and test sets without the
extra regularization term so this is how
we can automatically choose the
regularization parameter lambda what I
usually do is maybe have some range of
values of lambda I want to try out so I
might be considering not using
regularization well here are a few
values I might try out might be
considering long because over there one
of my no two or four or four and so on
and you know I usually step these up in
multiples of two until some some maybe
larger value if I were doing this in
multiples of two and
without 10.24 instead of 10 exactly but
you know this is close enough enter the
third and fourth decimal places won't
won't affect your result that much so
this gives me maybe 12 different models
I'm trying to select amounts
corresponding to tell different values
of the regularization parameter lambda
and of course you can also go to stal
use less than 0.01 or values larger than
10 but I've just truncated it here for
convenience given each of these 12
models what we can do is then the
following we can take this first model
what amount equals zero and minimize my
cost function J of theta and this will
give me some parameter vector theta and
similar to the earlier video let me just
denote this as say the superscript one
and then I can take my second model with
lambda is set to 0.01 and minimize my
cost function now using lambda equals
0.01 of course to get some different
parameter vector theta let me denote
that theta 2 and for that I end up with
theta 3 so if this is right for my third
model and so on and itself for my final
model was wrong they're set to 10 when I
want to go ten on 10.24 I end up with
this theta 12
next I can take all of these hypotheses
or all of these parameters and use my
cross-validation set to evaluate them so
I can look at my first model my second
model fits with these different values
of the regularization parameter and
evaluate them on my cross-validation
sets basically measure the average
squared error of each of these parameter
vectors theta on my cross validation set
and I would then pick whichever one of
these 12 models gives me the lowest
error on the cross-validation set and
let's say for the sake of the example
that I end up picking theta 5 the fifth
order polynomial because that has the
lowest cross-validation error
having done that finally what I would do
if I want to report a test set error is
to take the parameter theta 5 stuff that
I've selected and look at how well it
does on my test sets and once again here
is as if we fit this parameter theta to
my cross-validation sets which is why
I'm saving aside a separate test set
that I'm going to use to get a better
estimate of how well my parameter vector
theta will generalize to previously
unseen examples
so that's model selection applied to
selecting the regularization parameter
lambda the last thing I'd like to do in
this video is get a better understanding
of how cross validation and training
error of the air V as we as we vary the
regularization parameter lambda and so
just a reminder right that was our
original cost function J of theta but
for this purpose we're going to define
training error without using your
organization parameter and cross
validation error without using the
regularization
and what I'd like to do is plot this
j-train and plug this GTV meaning just
the how well does my hypothesis do for
on the training set and how others my
hypothesis do on the cross-validation
set as I vary my regularization
parameter lambda
so as we saw earlier if lambda is small
then we're not using much regularization
and we run a larger risk of overfitting
whereas if lambda is large that is if we
were on the right part of this
horizontal axis then with a large value
of lambda we run a higher risk of having
a bias problem so if you plot J train
and JCV what you find is that for small
values of lambda you are you can fit the
training set relatively well because
you're not regularizing so for small
values of lambda the regularization term
basic goes away and you're just
minimizing pretty much your squared
error so when lambda is small you end up
with a small value for j-train
whereas if lambda is large then you have
a high bias problem and you might not
fit your training so well so you didn't
value up there so J train of theta will
tend to increase when lambda increases
because a large value of lambda
corresponds to high bias where you might
not even fit your training set well
whereas a small value of lambda
corresponds to if you can you know 3d
fits a fairly high degree polynomial to
your data let's say as for the
cross-validation error we end up with a
figure like this where we're over here
on the right if we have a large value of
lambda we may end up under fitting and
so this is the bias regime whereas and
so the cross-validation error will be
high let me just label that so that's
JCV of theta because with high bias we
won't be fitting we won't be doing well
on the cross-validation set whereas here
on the left this is the high variance
regime
where if we have two smaller value of
lambda then we may be overfitting the
data and so for overfitting the data
then the cross-validation error were
also behind and so this is what do cross
validation error and what the training
error may look like on the training sets
as we believe different to launder as we
vary the randomization so long term and
so once again it will often be some
intermediate value of lambda that you
know this sort of called just rights or
that works best in terms of having a
small cross-validation error or a small
test set and whereas the curls I've
drawn here are somewhat cartoonish and
somewhat idealized so on a real data set
the curves you get may end up looking a
little bit more messy and just a little
bit more noisy than this for some data
says you will really see these poor
source of trends and by looking at the
plot of the holdout cross-validation
error you can either manually or
automatically try to select a point that
minimizes the the cross-validation error
and select a value of lambda
corresponding to low cross-validation
error when I'm trying to pick the
regularization parameter lambda for a
learning algorithm often I find that
plotting a figure like this one shown
here helps me understand better what's
going on and helps me verify that I am
indeed picking a good value for the
regularization parameter lambda so
hopefully that gives you more insight
into regularization and this effects on
the bias and variance of a learning
algorithm by now you've seen bias and
variance from a lot of different
perspectives and what I'd like to do in
the next video is think of all of the
insights that we've gone through and
build on them to put together a
diagnostic that's called learning curves
which is a tool that I often use to try
to diagnose that the learning algorithm
may be suffering from a bias problem or
Oh